Sharks have skin
that protects them in a unique way.
Left unchecked,
microorganisms would establish
colonies on the shark’s skin,
which in turn would attract larger parasites
to latch on to the shark.
If that happened,
the shark’s health
and ability to swim would suffer.
But the fact is
that the shark’s skin
remains virtually free of parasites.
How?
Sharkskin is covered in complex scales
called dermal denticles.
Though they look like tiny fish scales,
they are built more like mammal teeth
with a smooth enamel surface.
This very smooth surface,
together with a complex structure
of tiny ridges,
makes it very hard for microscopic organisms
to grab on to the shark’s skin.
If one does latch on,
those same ridges channel water
to flow faster and wash off the hitchhiker.
So this single design element
resists parasites in two different ways.
But that’s not all.
The denticles’ unique shape
creates small areas of suction
all along the shark’s body,
enhancing its ability
to thrust itself forward as it swims.
These advantages
allow sharks like the shortfin mako
to reach burst speeds
of 74 kilometers (46 mi) per hour!
Scientists are engineering
artificial surfaces
that mimic sharkskin
to help boats and planes
to be more fuel efficient.
This nature-inspired technology
could also prevent
harmful germs from growing
on hospital surfaces
without having to use
toxic disinfectants.
What do you think?
Did sharkskin simply evolve?
Or was it designed?